---
# Documentation: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/managing-content/

title: "AAAS Members Elected as Fellows"
subtitle: ""
summary: ""
authors: []
tags: []
categories: []
date: 2011-12-23T22:18:56-04:00
lastmod: 2011-12-23T22:18:56-04:00
featured: false
draft: false

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder.
# Focal points: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight.
image:
  caption: ""
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this post with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["internal-project"]` references `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects: []
---

In November 2011, the [AAAS](https://www.aaas.org/) Council elected 539 members as Fellows of AAAS. These individuals will be recognized for their contributions to science and technology at the Fellows Forum to be held on 18 February 2012 during the AAAS Annual Meeting in Vancouver, British Columbia. The new Fellows will receive a certificate and a blue and gold rosette as a symbol of their distinguished accomplishments.

Presented by section affiliation, they are:

#### Section on Agriculture, Food, and Renewable Resources ####
Martha Ann Belury, Ohio State Univ. • Thomas E. Besser, Washington State Univ. • Daniel R. Bush, Colorado State Univ. • Z. Jeffrey Chen, Univ. of Texas at Austin • Lynda M. Ciuffetti, Oregon State Univ. • Consuelo M. De Moraes, Pennsylvania State Univ. • Gerald E. Edwards, Washington State Univ. • Catherine Feuillet, French National Institute for Agricultural Research • Edward Allen Foegeding, North Carolina State Univ. • Fred Gould, North Carolina State Univ. • Bingru Huang, Rutgers, The State Univ. of New Jersey • Louise E. Jackson, Univ. of California, Davis • Michael R. Ladisch, Purdue Univ. • Rui Hai Liu, Cornell Univ. • Lena Q. Ma, Univ. of Florida • David J. Mackill, Univ. of California, Davis • Gregory D. May, National Center for Genome Resources • Stephen G. Pallardy, Univ. of Missouri-Columbia • Carl A. Pinkert, Auburn Univ. • B.W. Poovaiah, Washington State Univ. • Steven R. Rodermel, Iowa State Univ. • Guy Smagghe, Ghent Univ., Belgium

#### Section on Anthropology ####
Leslea J. Hlusko, Univ. of California, Berkeley • Peter Neal Peregrine, Lawrence Univ. • Vernon Lee Scarborough, Univ. of Cincinnati • Michael Silverstein, Univ. of Chicago • Dawnie Wolfe Steadman, Binghamton Univ. • Chris Stringer, The Natural History Museum,London • Robert H. Tykot, Univ. of South Florida • Virginia J. Vitzthum, Indiana Univ. • Carol Marie Worthman, Emory Univ.

#### Section on Astronomy ####
Lars Bildsten, Univ. of California, Santa Barbara • Megan Donahue, Michigan State Univ. • Debra Meloy Elmegreen, Vassar College • Giuseppina (Pepi) Fabbiano, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory • Chryssa Kouveliotou, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center • Chung-Pei Ma, Univ. of California, Berkeley • John C. Mather, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center • Robert David Mathieu, Univ. of Wisconsin-Madison • Sara Seager, Massachusetts Institute of Technology • Kristen Sellgren, Ohio State Univ. • Krzysztof Z. Stanek, Ohio State Univ. • Martin White, Univ. of California, Berkeley • Ernst K. Zinner, Washington Univ. in St. Louis

#### Section on Atmospheric and Hydrospheric Sciences ####
E. Virginia Armbrust, Univ. of Washington • Anthony J. Broccoli, Rutgers, The State Univ. of New Jersey • Antonio Busalacchi, Univ. of Maryland, College Park • J. David Neelin, Univ. of California, Los Angeles • Konrad Steffen, Univ. of Colorado at Boulder • William G. Sunda, NOAA Center for Coastal Fisheries and Habitat Research • Pieter P. Tans, NOAA Earth System Research Laboratory • Robert A. Weller, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution

#### Section on Biological Sciences ####
Christoph C.H. Adami, Keck Graduate Institute • Jon Ågren, Uppsala Univ., Sweden • Brian Alters, McGill Univ., Canada • Richard M. Amasino, Univ. of Wisconsin-Madison • Jonathan Arnold, Univ. of Georgia, Athens • Motoyuki Ashikari, Nagoya Univ., Japan • Ruma Banerjee, Univ. of Michigan • Brian McRae Barnes, Univ. of Alaska Fairbanks • Carl Bauer, Indiana Univ. • Graeme I. Bell, Univ. of Chicago • George N. Bennett, Rice Univ. • Louis Bernatchez, Université Laval, Canada • David M. Bisaro, Ohio State Univ. • David Boettiger, Univ. of Pennsylvania • Richard G. Brennan, Duke Univ. School of Medicine • Judith Campisi, Buck Institute • P. Bryant Chase, Florida State Univ. • Jiquan Chen, Univ. of Toledo • Xuemei Chen, Univ. of California, Riverside • Scott L. Collins, Univ. of New Mexico • Duane A. Compton, Dartmouth Medical School • Jeffrey Conner, Michigan State Univ. • Barry A. Costa-Pierce, Univ. of Rhode Island • Quentin C.B. Cronk, Univ. of British Columbia, Canada • Bryan Cullen, Duke Univ. • Sandra Joanne Friezner Degen, Univ. of Cincinnati/Cincinnati Children’s Research Foundation • Chuxia Deng, National Institutes of Health • Carmen W. Dessauer, Univ. of Texas Medical School at Houston • David L. Dilcher, Indiana Univ. • Michael Doebeli, Univ. of British Columbia, Canada • Henrik G. Dohlman, Univ. of North Carolina, Chapel Hill • Chen Dong, Univ. of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center • Xinnian Dong, Duke Univ. • Andrew P. Feinberg, Johns Hopkins Univ. School of Medicine • Patricia L. Foster, Indiana Univ. • Nigel W. Fraser, Univ. of Pennsylvania School of Medicine • Robert J. Full, Univ. of California, Berkeley • Mariano A. Garcia-Blanco, Duke Univ. Medical Center • Susan P. Gilbert, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute • William E. Goldman, Univ. of North Carolina, Chapel Hill • Byron Goldstein, Los Alamos National Laboratory • Daphne R. Goring, Univ. of Toronto, Canada • Kathleen L. Gould, Vanderbilt Univ. School of Medicine • Bryan T. Grenfell, Princeton Univ. • Jun-Lin Guan, Univ. of Michigan Medical School • Gretchen Hagen, Univ. of Missouri-Columbia • Heidi Elizabeth Hamm, Vanderbilt Univ. Medical Center • Min Han, Univ. of Colorado at Boulder • Dolph Lee Hatfield, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health • Bradford A. Hawkins, Univ. of California, Irvine • Kenneth F. Haynes, Univ. of Kentucky • Sheng Yang He, Michigan State Univ. • Xi He, Children’s Hospital Boston/Harvard Medical School • Eliot Herman, Donald Danforth Plant Science Center • George C. Hill, Vanderbilt Univ. School of Medicine • Gregg A. Howe, Michigan State Univ. • Michael J. Imperiale, Univ. of Michigan • Tadashi Inagami, Vanderbilt Univ. School of Medicine • William R. Jacobs, Jr., Albert Einstein College of Medicine • Bhanu P. Jena, Wayne State Univ. School of Medicine • Sue Jinks-Robertson, Duke Univ. Medical Center • Hideko Kaji, Thomas Jefferson Univ. • Daniel P. Kiehart, Duke Univ. • Thomas D. Kocher, Univ. of Maryland, College Park • Nori Kurata, National Institute of Genetics, Japan • Gary A. Lamberti, Univ. of Notre Dame • Min Li, Johns Hopkins Univ. School of Medicine • Karen R. Lips, Univ. of Maryland, College Park • Jennifer K. Lodge, Washington Univ. School of Medicine in St. Louis • Richard L. Maas, Brigham and Women’s Hospital/Harvard Medical School • Nancy S. Magnuson, Washington State Univ. • Donal T. Manahan, Univ. of Southern California • Edward M. Marcotte, Univ. of Texas at Austin • Kelly Edward Mayo, Northwestern Univ. • W. Richard McCombie, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory • Sheila McCormick, USDA-ARS/Univ. of California, Berkeley • Michael D. McMullen, Univ. of Missouri-Columbia • Anastasios Melis, Univ. of California, Berkeley • Anthony F. Michaels, Univ. of Southern California • Robert L. Modlin, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA • Jason H. Moore, Dartmouth Medical School • James V. Moroney, Louisiana State Univ. • Trudy G. Morrison, Univ. of Massachusetts Medical School • Sean Munro, MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, UK • Richard M. Myers, HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology • Prakash S. Nagarkatti, Univ. of South Carolina • Peter L. Nara, Biological Mimetics, Inc./Iowa State Univ. • Neil M. Nathanson, Univ. of Washington • Alexandra C. Newton, Univ. of California, San Diego • Diana E. Northup, Univ. of New Mexico • Douglas L. Oliver, Univ. of Connecticut Health Center • Guillermo Oliver, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital • George A. O’Toole, Dartmouth Medical School • Fernando Pardo-Manuel de Villena, Univ. of North Carolina, Chapel Hill • Margaret A. Pericak-Vance, Univ. of Miami • Caroline C. Philpott, National Institutes of Health • Kevin W. Plaxco, Univ. of California, Santa Barbara • Jeffrey W. Pollard, Albert Einstein College of Medicine • James W. Posakony, Univ. of California, San Diego • John R. Pringle, Stanford Univ. School of Medicine • Nancy Raab-Traub, Univ. of North Carolina, Chapel Hill • David M. Rand, Brown Univ. • Steven M. Reppert, Univ. of Massachusetts Medical School • Karin D. Rodland, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory • Claudina Rodrigues-Pousada, New Univ. of Lisbon, Portugal • Michael J. Ryan, Univ. of Texas at Austin • David E. Salt, Univ. of Aberdeen, UK • Federico Sánchez, Univ. Nacional Autónoma de México • Richard T. Sayre, Los Alamos National Laboratory • Stephen W. Scherer, Hospital for Sick Children, Canada • Jack C. Schultz, Univ. of Missouri-Columbia • Jeff Sekelsky, Univ. of North Carolina, Chapel Hill • Thomas D. Sharkey, Michigan State Univ. • Amanda A. Simcox, Ohio State Univ. • Patricia Simpson, Univ. of Cambridge, UK • Maureen L. Stanton, Univ. of California, Davis • William T. Starmer, Syracuse Univ. • John D. Storey, Princeton Univ. • F. Robert Tabita, Ohio State Univ. • Andrew T.C. Tsin, Univ. of Texas at San Antonio • Larry N. Vanderhoef, Univ. of California, Davis • Matthew K. Waldor, Brigham and Women’s Hospital • Cheryl Lyn Walker, Univ. of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center • Angela Wandinger-Ness, Univ. of New Mexico • Gary A. Weisman, Univ. of Missouri-Columbia • Lois S. Weisman, Univ. of Michigan • James B. Whitfield, Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign • Thomas G. Whitham, Northern Arizona Univ. • Michael C. Whitlock, Univ. of British Columbia, Canada • Gerald S. Wilkinson, Univ. of Maryland, College Park • Joseph B. Williams, Ohio State Univ. • Scott M. Williams, Vanderbilt Univ. • Ned S. Wingreen, Princeton Univ. • Yue Xiong, Univ. of North Carolina, Chapel Hill • Tian Xu, Yale Univ. School of Medicine • Craig M. Young, Univ. of Oregon • Barry R. Zirkin, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health

#### Section on Chemistry ####
Steven A. Adelman, Purdue Univ. • S. Michael Angel, Univ. of South Carolina • Zlatko Bac˘ic´, New York Univ. • Nathan A. Baker, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory • Alan L. Balch, Univ. of California, Davis • Peter A. Beal, Univ. of California, Davis • Darryl J. Bornhop, Vanderbilt Univ. • Kit Hansell Bowen, Jr., Johns Hopkins Univ. • Laurie J. Butler, Univ. of Chicago • Susan Beda Butts, Council for Chemical Research • Heather A. Carlson, Univ. of Michigan • Carl J. Carrano, San Diego State Univ. • Joseph A. Caruso, Univ. of Cincinnati • Daniel T. Chiu, Univ. of Washington • David E. Clemmer, Indiana Univ. • William J. Cooper, Univ. of California, Irvine • Brian R. Crane, Cornell Univ. • Frederick Dahlquist, Univ. of California, Santa Barbara • John M. Denu, Univ. of Wisconsin-Madison • David M. Dooley, Univ. of Rhode Island • Antonio Facchetti, Northwestern Univ. • James M. Farrar, Univ. of Rochester • Ellen R. Fisher, Colorado State Univ. • Daniel R. Gamelin, Univ. of Washington • Kent S. Gates, Univ. of Missouri-Columbia • Karen I. Goldberg, Univ. of Washington • John C. Gordon, Los Alamos National Laboratory • Arunava Gupta, Univ. of Alabama • Michael M. Haley, Univ. of Oregon • Benjamin S. Hsiao, Stony Brook Univ. • Russell P. Hughes, Dartmouth College • Joseph T. Hupp, Northwestern Univ. • Brent Iverson, Univ. of Texas at Austin • Cynthia J. Jenks, Ames Laboratory • Richard F. Jordan, Univ. of Chicago • Alamgir Karim, Univ. of Akron • Jaqueline L. Kiplinger, Los Alamos National Laboratory • Lukasz Lebioda, Univ. of South Carolina • George W. Luther III, Univ. of Delaware • Anne B. McCoy, Ohio State Univ. • Scott J. Miller, Yale Univ. • Nancy S. Mills, Trinity Univ. • Timothy K. Minton, Montana State Univ. • Karl T. Mueller, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory • Balaji Narasimhan, Iowa State Univ. • Joseph M. O’Connor, Univ. of California, San Diego • Peter J. Ortoleva, Indiana Univ. • Kirk A. Peterson, Washington State Univ. • Piotr Piecuch, Michigan State Univ. • Prasad L. Polavarapu, Vanderbilt Univ. • T. V. RajanBabu, Ohio State Univ. • Bruce H. Robinson, Univ. of Washington • Jeanne M. Robinson, Los Alamos National Laboratory • Robin D. Rogers, Univ. of Alabama • Sandra J. Rosenthal, Vanderbilt Univ. • Michael J. Sailor, Univ. of California, San Diego • Karl A. Scheidt, Northwestern Univ. • Ben Shen, Scripps Research Institute • Mary Jane Shultz, Tufts Univ. • Alan J. Shusterman, Reed College • Matthew S. Sigman, Univ. of Utah • Claudia Turro, Ohio State Univ. • Wilfred A. van der Donk, Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign • Robert A. Walker, Montana State Univ. • Nils G. Walter, Univ. of Michigan • Yinsheng Wang, Univ. of California, Riverside • Michael D. Ward, New York Univ. • Chrys Wesdemiotis,Univ. of Akron • Henry S. White, Univ. of Utah • M. Christina White, Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign • Sarah A. Woodson, Johns Hopkins Univ. • X. Nancy Xu, Old Dominion Univ. • Michael J. Zaworotko, Univ. of South Florida • Dongping Zhong, Ohio State Univ. • Ruhong Zhou, IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center • Dorothy Zolandz, National Academy of Sciences

#### Section on Dentistry ####
Francesco Chiappelli, UCLA School of Dentistry • Rena N. D’Souza, Texas A&M Health Science Center • Paul H. Krebsbach, Univ. of Michigan School of Dentistry • James E. Melvin, National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research, National Institutes of Health • Cun-Yu Wang, UCLA School of Dentistry

#### Section on Education ####
Fouad Abd-El-Khalick, Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign • Barbara A. Crawford, Cornell Univ. • Kent J. Crippen, Univ. of Florida • Judith A. Dilts, James Madison Univ. • Joan Ferrini-Mundy, National Science Foundation • Beverly Lindsay, Pennsylvania State Univ. • Karen Kashmanian Oates, Worcester Polytechnic Institute • Jonathan A. Plucker, Indiana Univ. • Christian Dieter Schunn, Univ. of Pittsburgh • Michelle Miller Sulikowski, Vanderbilt Univ. • Molly H. Weinburgh, Texas Christian Univ.

#### Section on Engineering ####
Ali Adibi, Georgia Institute of Technology • Suresh K. Aggarwal, Univ. of Illinois, Chicago • Muhammad A. Alam, Purdue Univ. • Pedro J.J. Alvarez, Rice Univ. • Panos Antsaklis, Univ. of Notre Dame • Terry Bahill, Univ. of Arizona • Rashid Bashir, Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign • Wesley R. Burghardt, Northwestern Univ. • Robert J. Butera, Georgia Institute of Technology • C. Barry Carter, Univ. of Connecticut • Sanjeev Chandra, Univ. of Toronto, Canada • Srinivasan Chandrasekar, Purdue Univ. • Ni-Bin Chang, Univ. of Central Florida • Rama Chellappa, Univ. of Maryland, College Park • Vikram L. Dalal, Iowa State Univ. • Pablo G. Debenedetti, Princeton Univ. • Debasish Dutta, Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign • Suzanne Fortier, Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada • Benny Dean Freeman, Univ. of Texas at Austin • Suresh V. Garimella, Purdue Univ. • Andrew Avi Goldenberg, Univ. of Toronto, Canada • Yogi D. Goswami, Univ. of South Florida • Rajiv Gupta, Univ. of California, Riverside • Joseph P. Heremans, Ohio State Univ. • K. Jimmy Hsia, Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign • Yingbo Hua, Univ. of California, Riverside • Michael M. Khonsari, Louisiana State Univ. • Lee Rybeck Lynd, Dartmouth College • Antonios G. Mikos, Rice Univ. • Larry Akio Nagahara, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health • Chul Park, Univ. of Toronto, Canada • Bhakta B. Rath, Naval Research Laboratory • Lakshmi N. Reddi, Univ. of Central Florida • William B. Russel, Princeton Univ. • Michael Vivian Sefton, Univ. of Toronto, Canada • Michael L. Simpson, Oak Ridge National Laboratory • Tarunraj Singh, Univ. at Buffalo, The State Univ. of New York • Alexander J. Smits, Princeton Univ. • Randall Q. Snurr, Northwestern Univ. • Vijay Srinivasan, National Institute of Standards and Technology • Paul G. Steffes, Georgia Institute of Technology • Michael Tsapatsis, Univ. of Minnesota • Darrell Velegol, Pennsylvania State Univ. • Richard E. Waugh, Univ. of Rochester • Alan E. Willner, Univ. of Southern California • Moe Z. Win, Massachusetts Institute of Technology • Karl Dane Wittrup, Massachusetts Institute of Technology • William W-G. Yeh, Univ. of California, Los Angeles • R. Paul Young, Univ. of Toronto, Canada • Paul K.L. Yu, Univ. of California, San Diego • Hussein M. Zbib, Washington State Univ. • Kemin Zhou, Louisiana State Univ. • Mengchu Zhou, New Jersey Institute of Technology

#### Section on General Interest in Science and Engineering ####
Lawrence Bell, The Museum of Science, Boston • Mary Eileen Burke, Academy of Science-St. Louis • Gary G. DeLeo, Lehigh Univ. • David D. Herring, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration • James P. O’Brien, Tidewater Community College • Robert F. Phalen, Univ. of California, Irvine • Katherine E. Rowan, George Mason Univ. • Kris M. Wilson, Univ. of Texas at Austin

#### Section on Geology and Geography ####
John T. Andrews, Univ. of Colorado at Boulder • Huiming Bao, Louisiana State Univ. • Edward J. Brook, Oregon State Univ. • Robert W. Buddemeier, Kansas Geological Survey • Gary R. Byerly, Louisiana State Univ. • Martin B. Goldhaber, U.S. Geological Survey • Daniel A. Griffith, Univ. of Texas at Dallas • Jennifer W. Harden, U.S. Geological Survey • Lloyd D. Keigwin, Jr., Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution • John A. Kelmelis, Pennsylvania State Univ. • Arthur N. Palmer, State Univ. of New York College at Oneonta • Peter A. Rogerson, Univ. at Buffalo, The State Univ. of New York • C.K. Shum, Ohio State Univ. • Lisa Tauxe, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, Univ. of California, San Diego

#### Section on History and Philosophy of Science ####
Steven J. Dick, Retired, National Aeronautics and Space Administration • W. Patrick McCray, Univ. of California, Santa Barbara • Carolyn Merchant, Univ. of California, Berkeley • Helga Nowotny, European Research Council • Rosemary Stevens, Cornell Univ.

#### Section on Industrial Science and Technology ####
Quanxi Jia, Los Alamos National Laboratory

#### Section on Information, Computing, and Communication ####
Behnaam Aazhang, Rice Univ. • Martín Abadi, Univ. of California, Santa Cruz /Microsoft Research •  **David A. Bader**, Georgia Institute of Technology • Luiz André Barroso, Google, Inc. • Katy Börner, Indiana Univ. • Allan Borodin, Univ. of Toronto, Canada • José A.B. Fortes, Univ. of Florida • James Hendler, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute • Alan R. Hevner, Univ. of South Florida • Randy H. Katz, Univ. of California, Berkeley • Joseph A. Konstan, Univ. of Minnesota • John E. Laird, Univ. of Michigan • Hector J. Levesque, Univ. of Toronto, Canada • Michael R. Nelson, Georgetown Univ. • Krishna V. Palem, Rice Univ. • Jon M. Peha, Carnegie Mellon Univ. • Martha E. Pollack, Univ. of Michigan • Stuart Russell, Univ. of California, Berkeley • Subhash Suri, Univ. of California, Santa Barbara • Paul F. Uhlir, National Academy of Sciences • Jeffrey Voas, National Institute of Standards and Technology

#### Section on Linguistics and Language Sciences ####
Peter W. Culicover, Ohio State Univ. • John J. Ohala, Univ. of California, Berkeley • Carol Padden, Univ. of California, San Diego

#### Section on Mathematics ####
Mark S. Alber, Univ. of Notre Dame • Ingrid Daubechies, Duke Univ. • Mark L. Green, Univ. of California, Los Angeles • Claudia Neuhauser, Univ. of Minnesota Rochester • Richard A. Tapia, Rice Univ. • Roger Temam, Indiana Univ.

#### Section on Medical Sciences ####
Adriano Aguzzi, Univ. Hospital of Zurich • Jayakrishna Ambati, Univ. of Kentucky • Brenda L. Bass, Univ. of Utah • Elaine L. Bearer, Univ. of New Mexico • Thomas L. Benjamin, Harvard Medical School • Nancy J. Brown, Vanderbilt Univ. School of Medicine • Sally A. Camper, Univ. of Michigan Medical School • Christin Carter-Su, Univ. of Michigan Medical School • Ellen Wright Clayton, Vanderbilt Univ. • Carlo M. Croce, Ohio State Univ. • Michael R. DeBaun, Vanderbilt Children’s Hospital • Mark R. Denison, Vanderbilt Univ. Medical Center • Eleftherios P. Diamandis, Univ. of Toronto, Canada • Linda C. Giudice, Univ. of California, San Francisco • Keith W. Kelley, Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign • Michael M. Lederman, Case Western Reserve Univ. • Beth Levine, Univ. of Texas Southwestern Medical Center • Xiaoxia Li, Cleveland Clinic Foundation • Malcolm J. Low, Univ. of Michigan • Philippa Marrack, National Jewish Health • Ruslan Medzhitov, Yale Univ. School of Medicine • Gordon B. Mills, Univ. of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center • Josef Penninger, Institute of Molecular Biotechnology, Austria • Stanley Perlman, Univ. of Iowa • Jeffrey E. Pessin, Albert Einstein College of Medicine • Richard George Pestell, Kimmel Cancer Center/Thomas Jefferson Univ. • Paula Pitha-Rowe, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine • Scott A. Rivkees, Yale School of Medicine • Marjorie Robert-Guroff, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health • John J. Rossi, City of Hope • Steven J. Schiff, Pennsylvania State Univ. • Deepak Srivastava, Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease • James H. Strauss, California Institute of Technology • Robert M. Strieter, Univ. of Virginia School of Medicine • Joseph R. Testa, Fox Chase Cancer Center • Denisa D. Wagner, Harvard Medical School • Mark A. Wainberg, McGill Univ. AIDS Centre, Canada • David B. Weiner, Univ. of Pennsylvania School of Medicine • Jane Y. Wu, Northwestern Univ. Feinberg School of Medicine • Dihua Yu, Univ. of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center • Susan Zolla-Pazner, New York Univ. School of Medicine/New York Veterans Affairs Medical Center

#### Section on Neuroscience ####
Ben A. Barres, Stanford Univ. School of Medicine • Nancy M. Bonini, Univ. of Pennsylvania • Catherine Emily Carr, Univ. of Maryland, College Park • Bruce D. Carter, Vanderbilt Univ. School of Medicine • Barry W. Connors, Brown Univ. • Marie T. Filbin, Hunter College • Stuart Firestein, Columbia Univ. • Michael Frotscher, Univ. of Freiburg, Germany • Anthony A. Grace, Univ. of Pittsburgh • Michael E. Hasselmo, Boston Univ. • Steven E. Hyman, Harvard Univ. • Bruce T. Lamb, Cleveland Clinic Foundation • Diane Lipscombe, Brown Univ. • Stuart A. Lipton, Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute • Liqun Luo, Stanford Univ. • Enrico Mugnaini, Northwestern Univ. Feinberg School of Medicine • Sarah L. Pallas, Georgia State Univ. • Gregory J. Quirk, Univ. of Puerto Rico School of Medicine • James B. Ranck, Jr., State Univ. of New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn • Lorna W. Role, Stony Brook Univ. • Roderick A. Suthers, Indiana Univ. • Matthew A. Wilson, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

#### Section on Pharmaceutical Sciences ####
Peter J. Houghton, Nationwide Children’s Hospital • Margaret O. James, Univ. of Florida • Donald P. McDonnell, Duke Univ. Medical Center • John C. Reed, Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute • Danny D. Shen, Univ. of Washington • Patrick J. Sinko, Rutgers, The State Univ. of New Jersey • Jashvant D. Unadkat, Univ. of Washington • Mary K. Wolpert-DeFilippes, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health • Yun Yen, City of Hope

#### Section on Physics ####
Harald Ade, North Carolina State Univ. • Alexander V. Balatsky, Los Alamos National Laboratory • Albert-László Barabási, Northeastern Univ. • Jerzy Bernholc, North Carolina State Univ. • Theodore W. Bowyer, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory • Samuel Leon Braunstein, Univ. of York, UK • R. Sekhar Chivukula, Michigan State Univ. • Margaret Dobrowolska, Univ. of Notre Dame • George William Foster, Research Physicist and Former U.S. Representative • Jacek K. Furdyna, Univ. of Notre Dame • Efim Gluskin, Argonne National Laboratory • Alan J. Heeger, Univ. of California, Santa Barbara • Tin-Lun (Jason) Ho, Ohio State Univ. • Jainendra K. Jain, Pennsylvania State Univ. • Bobby R. Junker, U.S. Office of Naval Research • Shiv N. Khanna, Virginia Commonwealth Univ. • Young-Kee Kim, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory/Univ. of Chicago • Raymond Laflamme, Univ. of Waterloo, Canada • Daniel Perry Lathrop, Univ. of Maryland, College Park • Ramon E. Lopez, Univ. of Texas, Arlington • Alfred Z. Msezane, Clark Atlanta Univ. • Jeffrey S. Nico, National Institute of Standards and Technology • Jaan Noolandi, Retired, Xerox Research Centre of Canada • Philip A. Pincus, Univ. of California, Santa Barbara • Cedric J. Powell, National Institute of Standards and Technology • Apparao M. Rao, Clemson Univ. • Laura Reina, Florida State Univ. • Gertrude Fleming Rempfer, Portland State Univ. • Lee L. Riedinger, Univ. of Tennessee • Steven Lloyd Rolston, Univ. of Maryland, College Park • Michael Schick, Univ. of Washington • Lu Jeu Sham, Univ. of California, San Diego • Elizabeth Simmons, Michigan State Univ. • Pekka Sinervo, Canadian Institute for Advanced Research • Peter W. Stephens, Stony Brook Univ. • George F. Sterman, Stony Brook Univ. • Robert L. Sugar, Univ. of California, Santa Barbara • Raman Sundrum, Univ. of Maryland, College Park • Mauricio Terrones, Pennsylvania State Univ. • Ram K. Tripathi, NASA Langley Research Center • John D. Weeks, Univ. of Maryland, College Park • William A. Zajc, Columbia Univ.

#### Section on Psychology ####
Kent Charles Berridge, Univ. of Michigan • Sandra Blakeslee, New York Times • Rosemarie M. Booze, Univ. of South Carolina • Dante Cicchetti, Univ. of Minnesota • Steve W. Cole, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA • Mary Anne Fitzpatrick, Univ. of South Carolina • David Cyril Geary, Univ. of Missouri-Columbia • Judith F. Kroll, Pennsylvania State Univ. • Daniel J. Levitin, McGill Univ., Canada • Alan C. Spector, Florida State Univ. • Joseph Edward Steinmetz, Ohio State Univ. • Richard E. Tremblay, Univ. of Montreal, Canada • Zuoxin Wang, Florida State Univ.

#### Section on Social, Economic, and Political Sciences ####
Myron P. Gutmann, National Science Foundation • John R. Hibbing, Univ. of Nebraska-Lincoln • Sally T. Hillsman, American Sociological Association • Matthew D. McCubbins, Univ. of Southern California • Randolph Roth, Ohio State Univ. • Richard H. Steckel, Ohio State Univ. • Paula Stephan, Georgia State Univ.

#### Section on Societal Impacts of Science and Engineering ####
Daniel M. Kammen, Univ. of California, Berkeley • Dena Plemmons, Univ. of California, San Diego • Tobin L. Smith, Association of American Universities

#### Section on Statistics ####
George Casella, Univ. of Florida • Dipak K. Dey, Univ. of Connecticut • Robert E. Fay, Westat • Wing Kam Fung, Univ. of Hong Kong • Miguel A. Hernán, Harvard School of Public Health • Joan F. Hilton, Univ. of California, San Francisco • André I. Khuri, Univ. of Florida • Sastry G. Pantula, National Science Foundation • Xiaotong Shen, Univ. of Minnesota • George W. Williams, Amgen, Inc.

*The AAAS seeks to "advance science, engineering, and innovation throughout the world for the benefit of all people." The world's largest multidisciplinary scientific society and a leading publisher of cutting-edge research through its Science family of journals, AAAS has individual members in more than 91 countries around the globe.*